_Predicates_, compared to _[[2. Propositional Logic|propositions]]_, are statements that also contain variables.
>Example:
>$x \geq 1$ contains the variable $x$ and the truth value depends on the value of the variable. Therefore, it is a (logical) _predicate_.

$p(x)$ → statement with variable $x$, D → set
$p$ is a predicate if for each $x \in D$, $p$ is a proposition. Then, $D$ is called the _domain of discourse_

Most often, $p(x)$ expresses a _property of $x$_, while $q(x, y)$ expresses a _relation between $x$ and $y$_.
Remark: By replacing the variables in a predicate with constants, the predicate becomes a _proposition_.

# Universal Quantifier $\forall$

$for\ every\ x, p(x)$ is called the __universal quantified statement__ and is denoted by $\forall x, p(x)$, where "$\forall$" is called the __universal quantifier__.
The universal quantifier statement ($\forall x, p(x)$) is false if $p(x)$ is false for at least one value of $x$. A value that makes $p(x)$ false is called a _counterecample_.

## Existential Quantifier $\exists$

The statement $for\ some\ x, p(x)$ is called the __existentially quantified statement__ and is denoted by $\exists x, p(x)$ where "$\exists$" is called the __existential quantifier__.
$\exists x, p(x)$ is true if $p(x)$ is true at least one $x$ and false if $p(x)$ is false for _every_ $x$.

## Generalized De Morgan's Laws
$$\overline{(\forall x, p(x))} \equiv \exists x, \overline{p(x)}$$
$$\overline{(\exists x, p(x))} \equiv \forall x, \overline{p(x)}$$
>The law can be adapted to the case in which the _quantified statements_ are restricted to a domain of discourse $D$:
>$\overline{(\forall x \in D, p(x))} \equiv \exists x \in D, \overline{p(x)}$
>$\overline{(\exists x \in D, p(x))} \equiv \forall x \in D, \overline{p(x)}$

## Final Remarks

- $p_1 \land p_2 \land \cdots \land p_n$ is equivalent to $\forall x, p(x)$
- $p_1 \lor p_2 \lor \cdots \lor p_n$ is equivalent to $\exists x, p(x)$