## 
**Web Page**: a text file with format coding and links to other files on the web.
**Web Site**: collection of web pages interlinked with each other.

**Standards**:
- HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)
- CSS: Cascading Style Sheets
- XML: Extensible Markup Language
- XHTML: Extensible HTML

## How does the browser fetch the pages?
---
The browser fetches a web page from a server by an HTTP **request** containing a page address.
```
scheme://prefix.domain:port/path/filename
```

## How does the browser display the pages?
---
All web pages contain instructions for display. A document type declaration `<!DOCTYPE>`, is an instruction that associates a web page with a document type definition (DTD).

**HTML is not a programming language**. In general terms, it is a set of instructions that tells a web browser how certain text and images should be displayed in the page.

## The Web Publishing Process
---
To publish your work, you must copy your site to a web server. Your own PC can act as a web server if it is connected to a network.

Web hosting means storing your web site on a public server.

## What do you need?
---
Knowledge of:
- HTML/XHTML, CSS, XML
- Client-side scripting (Javascript)
- Server-side scripting (PHP, JS/Node.js, ASP.NET, Ruby, Python, ...)
- SQL

## Creating Web pages
---
1. Designing your site:
	- Purpose of the site
	- Audience
	- How many pages & structure
	- Sketch the website
	- Devise a simple, consistent naming system for your pages, images and other external links
2. Designing each page
3. Start writing the Web pages